*************************
Download and Installation
*************************

The alternative ways to download and install the ``subgroups`` python library are described as follows.

=============
Quick install
=============

The easiest way to obtain this library is from the Python Package Index (PyPI).

For that, you can `download the package from its PyPI page`_ or directly install it by executing:

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install subgroups

=======
Testing
=======

After installing the library, a collection of tests can be launched by executing:

.. code-block:: python

    import subgroups.tests as st
    st.run_all_tests()

These tests verify that the library is correctly installed and that all components, algorithms and features are properly working.

======================
Installing from source
======================

The source code (latest development) is currently hosted on `GitHub`_.

Therefore, you need first to clone the repository:

.. code-block:: shell

    git clone https://github.com/antoniolopezmc/subgroups.git
    cd subgroups

After that, the library can be installed in *production mode* or in *develop mode*.

---------------
Production mode
---------------

.. code-block:: shell

    make install_prod

or

.. code-block:: shell

    python -m pip install ./

or

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install ./

This mode installs the library as normal, copying it to the standard Python site-packages directory.

------------
Develop mode
------------

.. code-block:: shell

    make install_dev

or

.. code-block:: shell

    python -m pip install -e ./

or

.. code-block:: shell

    pip install -e ./

This mode installs the library in editable mode, creating a link in the standard Python site-packages directory to the downloaded project directory (the current directory). See the `pip_install documentation`_ for further details.

=============
Documentation
=============

The source code of the project also contains a folder called ``docs``, which includes the documentation of the library (the documentation that you are reading). This documentation can be also manually generated by executing:

.. code-block:: shell

    cd docs
    make build

or

.. code-block:: shell

    cd docs
    python clean.py source/project_files build
    python -m pip install --upgrade sphinx
    python -m pip install --upgrade sphinx-rtd-theme
    python -m pip install --upgrade sphinx-autodoc-typehints
    sphinx-apidoc -f -T -M -o source/project_files ../src/subgroups
    sphinx-build -M html source build

The generated documentation will be located in the *build* subfolder.

.. _`download the package from its PyPI page`: https://pypi.org/project/subgroups/
.. _`GitHub`: https://github.com/antoniolopezmc/subgroups
.. _`pip_install documentation`: https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/cli/pip_install/#cmdoption-e
